Chapter 1. Longing for a herb

Once upon a time there was a man and a woman who had long, but to no avail, wished for a child. Finally the woman came to believe that the good Lord would fulfill her wish. Through the small rear window of these people's house they could see into a splendid garden that was filled with the most beautiful flowers and herbs. The garden was surrounded by a high wall, and no one dared enter, because it belonged to a sorceress, Frau Gothel, who possessed great power and was feared by everyone.

One day the woman was standing at this window, and she saw a bed planted with the most beautiful rapunzel. It looked so fresh and green that she longed for some. It was her greatest desire to eat some of the rapunzel. This desire increased with every day, and not knowing how to get any, she became miserably ill.

Her husband was frightened, and asked her, "What ails you, dear wife?"

"Oh," she answered, "if I do not get some rapunzel from the garden behind our house, I shall die."

The man, who loved her dearly, thought, "Before you let your wife die, you must get her some of the rapunzel, whatever the cost."

So just as it was getting dark he climbed over the high wall into the sorceress's garden, hastily dug up a handful of rapunzel, and took it to his wife. She immediately made a salad from it, which she devoured eagerly. It tasted so very good to her that by the next day her desire for more had grown threefold. If she were to have any peace, the man would have to climb into the garden once again. Thus he set forth once again just as it was getting dark. But no sooner than he had climbed over the wall than, to his horror, he saw the sorceress standing there before him.

"How can you dare," she asked with an angry look, "to climb into my garden and like a thief to steal my rapunzel? You will pay for this."

"Oh," he answered, "Let mercy overrule justice. I came to do this out of necessity. My wife saw your rapunzel from our window, and such a longing came over her, that she would die, if she did not get some to eat."

The sorceress's anger abated somewhat, and she said, "If things are as you say, I will allow you to take as much rapunzel as you want. But under one condition: You must give me the child that your wife will bring to the world. It will do well, and I will take care of it like a mother." 

In his fear the man agreed to everything.

Chapter 2. Keeping a promise

A year later the woman gave birth to a beautiful baby girl and they named her {name}. But then the sorceress appeared and took her away. She called {name} Rapunzel, after the herb that started it all, and raised her in a tower that stood in a forest. The sorceress let Rapunzel’s hair grow so long that it reached from wall to wall. But there was a wicked reason why her hair was never cut. As long as it kept growing, a spell locked the tower shut. The only entrance to the tower was a tiny little window at it’s very top. 

When the sorceress wanted to enter, she stood below and called out: 

<i>"Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
Let down your hair to me."</i>

Rapunzel had splendid long hair, as fine as spun gold. When she heard the sorceress's voice, she untied her braids, wound them around a window hook, let her hair fall twenty yards to the ground, and the sorceress climbed up it.

A few years later it happened that a king's son was riding through the forest. As he approached the tower he heard a song so beautiful that he stopped to listen. It was Rapunzel, who was passing the time by singing with her sweet voice. The prince wanted to climb up to her, and looked for a door in the tower, but none was to be found. 

He rode home, but the song had so touched his heart that he returned to the forest every day and listened to it. One time, as he was thus standing behind a tree, he saw the sorceress approach, and heard her say: 

<i>"Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
Let down your hair to me."</i>

Then Rapunzel let down her strands of hair, and the sorceress climbed up them to her.

"If that is the ladder into the tower, then sometime I will try my luck."

And the next day, just as it was beginning to get dark, he went to the tower and called out: 

<i>"Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
Let down your hair to me."</i>

The hair fell down, and the prince climbed up. At first {name} was terribly frightened when a man such as she had never seen before came in to her. 

"Don’t be afraid, I'm friendly!", said the prince. "I heard your sweet, sweet song, and I wanted so much to meet you in person."

"I've never met other people. I only lived in this tower, trapped here since forever and I do not know how to get down" explained Rapunzel. "I'd love to see the world, find what lies beyond the trees."

"You will, my long-haired beauty, we shall seize your freedom" promised the prince.

They arranged that he would come to her every evening, for the old woman came by day. He told jokes and stories that had {name} in fits of laughter. Each time he brought a present, a skein of silk to weave, to make a rope-like ladder to help Rapunzel finally leave.

Rapunzel hid the ladder from the eyes of the sorceress in the darkness under her bed. Her excitement started building, as the ladder grew ever longer. The prospect of her freedom was each day becoming stronger.

One day the sorceress came back early while Rapunzel was still weaving thread. She quickly hid the ladder, but it poked out from beneath the bed. It was too late, Frau Gothel had noticed it.

"What are you hiding under the bed?", cried the sorceress.

"A ladder, Mother Gothel," answered {name}. "I want to see the world, far lands with all their glamor. The prince said he would take me…" 

"Did he?" shrieked the witch, "We'll see about that," said Frau Gothel, her cheeks brightly flushed.

In her anger she grabbed Rapunzel's beautiful hair, wrapped it a few times around her left hand, grasped a pair of scissors with her right hand, and snip snap, cut it off. Then she locked Rapunzel in a big steel chest. 

That evening when the prince called out: 

<i>"Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
Let down your hair to me."</i>

the sorceress let down Rapunzel’s cut hair.

The prince climbed up, but above, instead of his beloved {name}, he found the Frau Gothel, who peered at him with poisonous and evil looks.

"Aha! So you’re the one who wants to take Rapunzel away from me" she cried scornfully. "You have lost Rapunzel. You will never see her again!"

In anger, brandishing sharp scissors, she cut the hair in pieces. The prince jerked back in shock and tumbled to the ground far beneath.

But in cutting Rapunzel’s long hair, Frau Gothel destroyed her spell. The steel chest opened, and a door and stairs appeared in the tower. So {name} ran down to where the prince fell. The prince lay still and silent. Tears streaked Rapunzel's face.

"My prince, come back to me!" said as she clutched him in an embrace.

The prince moaned very softly and slowly opened his eyes.

"Rapunzel, love, you saved my life. I am not hurt because your hair formed a protective blanket that softened my fall".

The prince and {name} got married and lived happily ever after. No one has ever seen Frau Gothel. 

<para alignment="right" fontsize="16"><i>The End</i></para>
END-OF-FILE


