Chapter 1. The family

Once upon a time there was a rich man whose wife became sick, and when she felt that her end was drawing near, she called her only daughter {name}  to her bedside and said:

"Dear {name}, remain pious and good, and then our dear God will always protect you, and I will look down on you from heaven and be near you." With this she closed her eyes and died. 

The girl went out to her mother's grave every day and wept, and she remained pious and good. When winter came, the snow spread a white cloth over the grave, and when the spring sun had removed it again, the man took himself another wife. 

This wife brought two daughters into the house with her. They were beautiful, with fair faces, but evil and dark hearts. Times soon grew very bad for the poor stepchild. 

"Why should that stupid goose sit in the parlor with us?" they said. "If she wants to eat bread, then she will have to earn it. Out with this kitchen maid!" 

They took her beautiful clothes away from her, dressed her in an old gray smock, and gave her wooden shoes. 

**IMG[0001.jpg,15,17]

"Just look at the proud princess! How decked out she is!" they shouted and laughed as they led her into the kitchen. 

There she had to do hard work from morning until evening, get up before daybreak, carry water, make the fires, cook, and wash. Besides this, the sisters did everything imaginable to hurt her. They made fun of her, scattered peas and lentils into the ashes for her, so that she had to sit and pick them out again. In the evening when she had worked herself weary, there was no bed for her. Instead, she had to sleep by the hearth in the ashes. And because she always looked dusty and dirty, they called her Cinderella. 

Chapter 2. Invitation to the ball

Now it happened that the king proclaimed a festival that was to last three days. All the beautiful young girls in the land were invited, so that his son could select a bride for himself. When the two stepsisters heard that they too had been invited, they were in high spirits. The father went to the fair and bought beautiful dresses, and pearls and jewels. The stepsisters then called Cinderella:

"Comb our hair for us", said the older stepsister.

"Brush our shoes and fasten our buckles", said the other one. 

"We are going to the festival at the king's castle", said both of them. 

Cinderella obeyed, but wept, because she too would have liked to go to the dance with them. She begged her stepmother to allow her to go. 

"You, Cinderella?" she said. "You, all covered with dust and dirt, and you want to go to the festival?. You have neither clothes nor shoes, and yet you want to dance!. We would be ashamed of you."

With this she turned her back on Cinderella, and hurried away with her two proud daughters. Now that no one else was at home, Cinderella went to her mother's grave and cried. 

And as she cried a unwitnessed light filled the whole place and a very beautiful fairy showed up. She wept the girl’s tears and said:

"Stop crying {name}, I am your godmother and I can fulfill any wish with the aid of my magic wand. If you want to go to the ball, go into the garden, pick the biggest pumpkin you find and bring it in front of the house. Also fetch me two lizards, six mice and a cat."

**IMG[0002.jpg,15,17]

{name} found the request odd but did as asked. In the garden she picked a pumpkin and caught two lizards, in the cellar she caught six mice, in the kitchen she took the cat sleeping on the stove and brought all of them to the fairy. The fairy touched them with her magic wand and the pumpkin turned into a beautiful coach, the mice into six white horses, the lizards into servants and the cat into a coachman. The fairy then touched {name} and her ugly clothes turned into a gold and silver dress and slippers embroided with silk and silver. 

The fairy told her: "Go to the ball and have a good time! Remember though you have to be back home before the clock strikes midnight because that’s when the magic will disappear".

{name} went to the ball. Her stepsisters and her stepmother did not recognize her. They thought she must be a foreign princess, for she looked so beautiful in the golden dress. They never once thought it was Cinderella, for they thought that she was sitting at home in the dirt. 

The prince approached her, took her by the hand, and danced with her. Furthermore, he would dance with no one else. He never let go of her hand, and whenever anyone else came and asked her to dance, he would say, "She is my dance partner." 

She danced all evening and just before midnight, she wanted to go home. But the prince said:

"I will go along and escort you," for he wanted to see to whom the beautiful girl belonged. However, she eluded him, ran home and hid herself in the kitchen.

The next day when the festival began anew, and her parents and her stepsisters had gone again, Cinderella went to her mother grave and cried.

The fairy showed up and gave her an even more magnificent dress than on the preceding day. When {name} appeared at the festival in this dress, everyone was astonished at her beauty. 

The prince had waited until she came, then immediately took her by the hand, and danced only with her. When others came and asked her to dance with them, he said, "She is my dance partner." 

She danced all evening and just before midnight, {name} wanted to leave, and the prince followed her, wanting to see into which house she went. But she ran away from him and went home in the kitchen. When her father, her step mother and step sisters came home Cinderella was lying in the ashes as usual. 

On the third day, when her parents and sisters had gone away, Cinderella went again to her mother's grave.

This time the fairy gave her a dress that was more splendid and magnificent than any she had yet had, and the slippers were of pure gold. When {name} arrived at the festival in this dress, everyone was so astonished that they did not know what to say. The prince danced only with her, and whenever anyone else asked her to dance, he would say, "She is my dance partner."

Just before midnight Cinderella wanted to leave, and the prince tried to escort her, but she ran away from him so quickly that he could not follow her. The prince, however, had set a trap. He had had the entire stairway smeared with pitch. When she ran down the stairs, her left slipper stuck in the pitch. The prince picked it up. It was small and dainty, and of pure gold. The next morning he spread the word in the kingdom: 

"No one shall be my wife except for the one whose foot fits this golden shoe." 

Chapter 3. Who is the bride?

The two sisters were happy to hear this, for they had pretty feet. The prince and his servants reached Cinderella’s house too. The older stepsister tried the shoe but she could not get her big toe into it, for the shoe was too small for her. 

The other sister tried on the shoe too. She got her toes into the shoe all right, but her heel was too large. 

The prince asked Cinderella’s father: "Don't you have another daughter?" 

"No," said the man. "There is only a deformed little Cinderella from my first wife, but she cannot possibly be the bride." 

The prince told him to send her to him, but the mother answered, "Oh, no, she is much too dirty. She cannot be seen." 

But the prince insisted on it, and they had to call Cinderella. But {name} first washed her hands and face clean, and then went and bowed down before the prince, who gave her the golden shoe. She sat down on a stool, pulled her foot out of the heavy wooden shoe, and put it into the slipper, and it fitted her perfectly. 

When she stood up the prince looked into her face, and he recognized the beautiful girl who had danced with him. He cried out:

"She is my bride." 

**IMG[0003.jpg,15,17]

The stepmother and the two sisters were horrified and turned pale with anger. The prince, however, took Cinderella onto his horse and rode away with her. 

But Cinderella was good-hearted, she forgave them and invited her stepmother and stepsisters to the castle to take part at her wedding. 

And they lived happily ever after.
<para alignment="right" fontsize="16"><i>The End</i></para>
END-OF-FILE

